This is a statement.
Statements are the evidence
for any sort of experience or event
which is to be tracked with the xAPI.
They contain all the information
on who our learner is
and what activities our learner has done.
But, before statements can do all that,
they have to be created.
Statements are actually
made up of multiple data types
combined together to make a single data object.
At a minimum, our
statement must include the actor,
the verb, and the object.
While Statements follow a
machine readable JSON format,
they can also easily be
described using natural language.
One of the most important responsibilities
of an instructional designer working with xAPI
is to know how to
develop statements that provide data
that is formatted correctly,
well organized
and computed in the most efficient way possible.
Once created, every
statement can then be tied to an activity.
An activity is any event,
content, or interaction
found within a learning experience.
Activities can be tracked
through practically any means imaginable.
They can be clicked, triggered,
played, started,
paused, sent, selected,
checked, completed,
watched, recorded,
stopped, etcetera.
Examples of events
could include visiting a web page,
answering a question in a classroom,
posting something on social media,
or collecting a
specimen for a Biology class.
The point is that events
can be anything that a learner
interacts with or does.
And, often, any given educational lesson
or training module
will include more than one event,
maybe even many events.
Instructional Designers are essential
in planning and developing events,
including when where, and how
events will be triggered.
The Learning Records Store,
or LRS, is charged with receiving
and storing xAPI statements
and then fetching queried statements.
Next the LRS will deliver
the statements to the end user
in the
correct format for reporting.
Instructional Designers
should know how to send
and retrieve xAPI statements.
But more importantly, Instructional Designers
must know how to analyze the data
that is retrieved from the LRS,
organize that data is a useful way,
and finally format it
so that it can be understood by the end user.
There are open-source LRSs
as well as paid versions
and LRS can be used as a standalone database
or as part of an LMS.